+++
title = "Disclaimer"
description = ""
slug = "disclaimer"
author = "Lobo"
comments = "true"
date = "2011-01-17 04:49:26"
timezone = "IST"
+++

**PRAVEEN LOBO’S BLOG TERMS OF USE.**

**PLEASE READ VERY CAREFULLY THESE TERMS OF USE BEFORE READING, COMMENTING ON, DOWNLOADING, COPYING, REPRODUCING, ALTERING MATERIALS OF ANY KIND, SUBSCRIBING TO, AND LINKING TO (COLLECTIVELY “USING”) THIS BLOG. USING THIS BLOG INDICATES THAT YOU ACCEPT THESE TERMS OF USE. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE TERMS OF USE, PLEASE DO NOT USE THIS BLOG.**

**Introduction**: This agreement (“**Agreement**”) between You and Praveen Lobo (“**the Author**”) consists of these Praveen Lobo’s Blog (“**the Blog**”) Terms of Use (“**Terms**”). “**You**”, “**Reader**” or “**Commenter**” means any entity identified by its comments, e-mail, registration information, or IP address. If You use this Blog on behalf of your employer, organization or company, they shall also be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

**Privacy**: When You leave a comment, the Author is automatically notified and receives IP, and e-mail information pertaining to the Commenter. This information is not stored by the Author for other purposes than to moderate comments. This information is not being sold or used for other purposes. If you have concerns with the way this information is used, please contact the Author directly to arrange for complete removal of this information. Removal of all personal information will result in the removal of any content the Commenter might have contributed to this Blog, including comments. This Blog is hosted in United States. Be aware that laws regarding personal information and privacy may differ from Your location.

**Google Disclaimer**: This Blog uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.

**Third party vendors**, including Google, use cookies(including DART cookies) to serve ads based on a your prior visits to the Blog and other website on the internet. You may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the [advertising opt-out](http://www.google.com/privacy/ads/) page.
This blog is a participant in the **Amazon Services LLC Associates** Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, endless.com, or smallparts.com.

**Blog content**: All the contents of the Blog, EXCEPT FOR COMMENTS, constitute the opinion of the Author, and the Author alone; they do not represent the views and opinions of the Author’s employers, supervisors, nor do they represent the view of organizations, businesses, or institutions the Author is a part of. This Blog is mostly written in English; however, this is NOT the Author’s first language. The content of this Blog is not intended to cause harm, but if You have any concerns about the contents of this Blog, please [contact the Author](http://praveenlobo.com/contact/). Disagreeing with the content of the Blog does not constitute sufficient ground for You to ask the Author to remove or modify any parts of this Blog. The Author is not being paid to write content on this Blog or to manage and in any way operate this Blog.

**Copyright policy**: When in doubt, [ask](/contact). All the text, images, and other content being part of this Blog is property of the Author, unless noted otherwise. All logos and trademarks are property of their respective owners. As a general rule of thumb, those images/content that don't have any CC notice are most probably not Author's copyright and please do not use such content without Author's permission. Also, those content/images with **©** notice on them are not released under CC and the Author holds the copyright and do not encourage using them without Author's written permission. You are allowed to use any of the Author's work (except those noted above and those with explicit licenses on them) under [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). You are welcome to link to this Blog, and to discuss its contents in a respectful manner. When You quote or link to this Blog, please provide a link to the Blog including the Author’s name, the name of the page you are linking, and a permanent link (“**Permalink**”) to that page.

**Comment policy**: The Author is not responsible for the content of any comments made by the Commenter(s). The Author is also not responsible for knowing whether the content of Your comment is breaking the law in other countries or jurisdictions. This Blog is a venue for discussion; therefore, the Author will not delete critical comments, or comments portraying a different opinion from the Author’s own. However, the Author reserves the right to edit, delete, or not publish a comment if this is deemed to be potentially illegal (this includes, but it is not limited to comments containing hateful, libelous, and defamatory content). Please do not endanger Yourself or break the law when you comment. Comments intending to advertise and/or off-topic (“**SPAM**”) will be deleted. The Author also reserves the right to block Commenter(s) who have previously published offensive comments, illegal content, or SPAM.

**Forbidden actions**: You are not authorized to (i) use this Blog to advertise for products of any kind and for other Blogs, (ii) to infringe the Copyright policy and Comment policy of this Blog, (iii) to attack this Blog using malicious software and/or use this Blog for data mining (iv) to commit any illegal actions while using the Blog, or against this Blog, (v) to restrict access to this Blog, (vi) to impede the normal functioning of this Blog and (vii) to menace the Author with, or cause physical or financial harm to, the Author of this Blog.

**Changes to the Terms**: The Author reserves the right to change these Terms at any time. You will only be notified by the Blog through posts or syndicated content (RSS), NOT IN PERSON. It is Your responsibility to make sure that you agree with the new Terms, whenever changes have been announced. Changes to the Terms will be effective TWO WEEKS after the notice has been posted on the Blog. If You do not agree with the Terms, DO NOT USE THIS BLOG.

**No Guarantee**: The Author makes no guarantee regarding the validity of the content of the Blog. In addition, the Author does not guarantee that the Blog will be accessible at all times or during any down time (i) caused by outages to any public Internet backbones, networks or servers, (ii) caused by any failures of Your equipment, systems or local access services, (iii) for previously scheduled maintenance or (iv) relating to events beyond the Author’s control such as strikes, riots, fires, floods, explosions, war, terrorism, governmental action, labor conditions, natural and/or man-made disasters, or interruptions in Internet services to an area where the Author or Your servers are located. Although the Author does NOT moderate every comment, the Author makes no guarantee to the Commenter that its comments or trackbacks will be displayed promptly, without modifications, or that they will be displayed at all.

**No Warranty or Condition; Links**: The Author makes NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. If you choose to access the Blog, you do so AT YOUR OWN RISK. To the extent links and external content are based on or displayed in connection with the Blog, THE AUTHOR SHALL NOT HAVE ANY LIABILITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE DISPLAY OF SUCH LINKS AND SEARCH RESULTS, whether this external content is breaking the law in this or other jurisdictions. YOU AGREE TO USE THE BLOG AT YOUR OWN RISK, and that You will not consider the Blog’s content to be a suitable substitute for professional advice.

**Limitations of Liability**: IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY DAMAGES OR LOSSES, AND THE AUTHOR’S LIABILITY TO YOU UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY CLAIM IS LIMITED TO THE GROSS MONTHLY AMOUNT PAID BY THE AUTHOR FOR HOSTING SERVICES DURING THE ONE MONTH PERIOD IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE DATE OF THE CLAIM. Each party acknowledges that the other party has entered into this Agreement relying on the limitations of liability stated herein and that those limitations are an essential part of the Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, the Author shall not have any liability for any failure or delay resulting from any condition beyond the reasonable control of the Author, including but not limited to governmental action, labor conditions, power failures, natural and/or man-made disasters. The Author is not liable for the content of any comments the Commenter might leave on this Blog (see Comment policy).

**Obligation to Indemnify**: You agree to indemnify, defend and hold the Author("**Indemnified Person(s)**”) harmless from and against any and all third party claims, liability, loss, and expense, including damage awards, settlement amounts, and reasonable legal fees, brought against any Indemnified Person(s), arising out of, related to or which may arise from Your use of the Blog and/or Your breach of any term of this Agreement. This will include, but not limited to, judicial and extra-judicial costs and fees.

**Applicable Laws; Venue**: The Author operates the Blog from Wisconsin, United States, and makes no representations that materials in the Blog are appropriate or available for use in other locations. Access to the Blog from any location where the content is illegal is prohibited. Any claim related to the use of the Blog or to the Blog materials shall be governed by the laws of State of Wisconsin. Any action related to the access, use, content, or existence of this Blog shall be filed only in the appropriate court located within Wisconsin. The use of this Blog constitutes Your express permission and consent to the jurisdiction of the provincial and/or federal courts of the State of Wisconsin for the purposes of such actions.

**Legal notices and Contact information**: If You are intending to carry out legal action of any kind against the Blog or the Author, you are required to [contact the Author](http://praveenlobo.com/contact/) THIRTY BUSINESS DAYS before any legal claim is made. Please remember that the Author means to DO NO HARM to You or anyone else by writing this Blog. If You feel that your rights have been infringed, please [contact the Author](http://praveenlobo.com/contact/), and allow thirty business days for the reply to be received. The Author will do whatever possible to address Your concerns.
